---
title: Lian_Yu writeup
published: true
---

# ***TryHackMe***- Lian_YU : A beginner level security challenge

Link to THM Room : [Lian_Yu](https://tryhackme.com/room/lianyu)

## Methodology 
- *Port scanning*: nmap
- *Directory fuzzing*: gobuster
- *Decoding*: cyberchef(mentioned in room as well)
- *Steganography*: steghide, hexedit
- *Sudo abuse for Privilege Escilation* 

***Let's hack !!!***

- nmap to view ports running on the system:
*nmap -sC -sV -Pn -oN lian 10.10.x.x*

image here

We have web server running on Port 80, let's take a glance
image here

Nothing interesing here or in source code.

- Let's fire Gobuster to find some directories:
*./gobuster dir -u http://10.10.x.x -w /path_to_directory-list-2.3-medium.txt*
image here

we have hit on a directory, /island, let's check the directory we found on the website running and check source code to see if we can find some hints.

image here

*Vigilnate* don't know what it is for, still copy it in a file might come in handy later.

Now since the directory we found earlier had *(Status: 301)*, let's run gobuster to find other directories in it.

*./gobuster dir -u http://10.10.x.x/island -w /path_to_directory-list-2.3-medium.txt*
image here

Oh a hit here, well this answers our 2nd question

After viewing the directory and it's code, we can find a note or potential hint here.
image here

Much of a file exixts with a .ticket extention, hmmm
Well let's run gobuster again to find the hidden file with .ticket extention

*./gobuster dir -u http://10.10.x.x/island/(directory_found) -w /path_to_directory-list-2.3-medium.txt -x .ticket*
***(Check the gobuster help page to see -x flag use if you don't know)***

image here

Answer to the 3rd question.
Quickely viewing the the .ticket directory, we find a block of string. Interesting ! 
Well the string is potentially a password to something, and it's encoded.
Let's Decode it.

- Cyberchef to decode *quick hint the sting is Base58 encoded*
image here

This is definately a password, but to what??
Well let's try FTP
Remember we found *Vigilante*, it's a username of some kind.
Let's use it for FTP login with the password we decoded.
- ftp 10.10.x.x
image here

What do we know, logged in.
Enumeration here : *ls -la*

image here

Let's *get* those files

*get Leave_me_alone.png*
*get Queen's_Gambit.png*
*get aa.jpg*

Open the files...
Oh! hit an error trying to open *Leave_me_alone.png*
let's check this file

*file Leave_me_alone.png*
*Leave_me_alone.png: data*

Fishy right? Checking the file siganture or magic number of this .png file, the first few bytes have been modified which resulted the error we encountered.

*xxd Leave_me_alone.png | head*
*00000000: 5845 6fae 0a0d 1a0a 0000 000d 4948 4452  XEo.........IHDR*

Well Google to find the right magic number or just check the magic number of the another .png file we have Queen's_Gambit.png, cause this file did pop up right.

*xxd "Queen's_Gambit.png" | head*

Comparing these two we can make necessary changes to make the corrupt file right.
Correct magic number *89 50 4E 47 0D 0A 1A 0A*

- hexeditor to bake some magic code:
*hexedit Leave_me_alone.png*

image here

Now after we fix the magic number, it is viewable.
make sure though

*file Leave_me_alone.png*
*Leave_me_alone.png: PNG image data, 845 x 475, 8-bit/color RGBA, non-interlace*
image here

Found *password*

Well i found this password is not for SSH, so moving ahead to find more hints.
Certainly we have 2 more images to look upon.

-steghide: we have a .jpg file so let's check it.
using *password* as passphrase for steghide.

*steghide extract -sf aa.jpg*

*wrote extracted data to "ss.zip".*

Got a zip file *ss.zip* 
Unzip and check the file.

*unzip ss.zip*

Now we have two more files.
Checked *passwd.txt* and here's a Note, but did't find it useful. But feel free to check might get something.
Checked *shado* and there's a string. 

A password, now this is certainly the password for ssh, but I don't have a user. Maybe I missed something...

Going back to *ftp 10.10.x.x*
*ls*
*cd ..*
*ls*

Now here's another user with *Vigilante*, can't *cd* into this another user, so maybe try ssh with this user.

*ssh (another_user)@10.10.x.x*
*password in shado*

OMG! We're in...
The user flag is lying here.
*cat user.txt*

- Privilege Escilation:
Following tradition, check this user has sudo permissions.

*sudo -*

Now now...

*User <user> may run the following commands on LianYu:
    (root) PASSWD: /usr/bin/pkexec*

User as permission to run */usr/bin/pkexec*

As a linux nerd, just check the manual for *pkexec*

*man pkexec*

Hmmm, great! The pkexec allows users to execute commands as other users. 

Now let's just abuse *pkexec* to spawn a root shell:

*sudo /usr/bin/pkexec /bin/bash*
(/bin/bash shell is generally spawned as root)

Success!!! In as *root*

*ls*
*cat root.txt*

image here

Alas!!! Found the root.txt 
Pretty basic and fun machine.
***Thank you for reading. B)***





